I got a seemingly simple question on
Game of Thrones the Song of Ice and Fire
and frankly I think I could talk about
it for an hour solid we're gonna try to
keep this fella tively brief but it got
a simple question about political
significance of jon snow's short career
up at the wall and the fellow asking a
question from just a few words I said
about Jon Snow in earlier video he
inferred that I share his sense that Jon
Snow is in large part to blame for his
own fate up in the wall it's very
interesting that this guy asked the
question said that because I mentioned
John solo extremely briefly but I
mentioned that he was actually
overstepping his responsibilities in
reaching out to try to alleviate the
starvation of the wildlings the Jon Snow
really his position there was as a
military commander he's only responsible
for feeding the men who are in service
inside the wall he is not responsible
for feeding the peasants he is not
responsible for feeding the wildlings
who are there as refugees that that's
point in the story etc etc but it's
significant that in contrast to other
characters in contrast to Tyrion and
Contras and many other political leaders
Jon Snow is really concerned about the
starvation of of his people I suppose
he chooses to treat them as his people
even though he has no obligation towards
them many other political leaders really
do have obligations to worry about the
people but don't so I mentioned that
contrast in passing and this guy says
well can you speak more I put the extent
to which Jon Snow is responsible for his
own downfall well I will take a step
further in this response
I mean first off I feel like making a
kind of peculiar caveat here the
political themes in Song of Ice and Fire
simply reflect the interests of the
author george RR martin and especially
when he started writing these books
george RR martin did not have any
delusion that he could influence
American politics and of course that was
quite accurate george RR martin was not
particularly famous and not / - a
successful and not particularly
influential when he forted writing the
first book in the series that's not to
say his career was a fail
but neither and his character nor in
terms of the the success the limited
success had his career he wasn't in a
position to imagine that he was going to
have some kind of tremendous impact on
the American political spectrum no be
interesting to see maybe in his next
book
maybe now as he gets into the last
couple of books maybe he will now think
of himself as having political influence
but to give an example some of the
themes he deals with are genuine
political themes the genuine interest to
him in his reading of history but they
can't possibly have any real
ramifications for the United States of
America in the year 2016 or the year
2017 of the year 2020 so one of the
themes its prominent throughout all the
books is really a critique of the fact
that feudalism continues to put people
in positions of real political power
when they're still teenagers or when
they're still very young when they're
too young now again in United States of
America that's not their problem on the
contrary you might say that it's a
problem that the United States America
he's putting people into positions of
power when they're over 70 years old
when they're perhaps too old now as one
example of sorry I don't have a
biography of Francis Bacon here to hand
but in the 17th century the early 17th
century one of the you know most
political sorry one of the most
important political figures in the
United Kingdom in England is Francis
Bacon
so Francis Bacon is born in 1561 and
dies in 1626
Sasori spans you know two centuries
there obviously I was referring to him
as 17th century he is first elected to
Parliament at about 20 years of age
so I don't have the precise state here
as I recall he may have only been 19
when he got elected parliament he was
about 20 years old when he selected the
Parliament um and before that has ever
called he actually had a couple of
reasonably important positions in
government when he was still a teenager
I'm sorry I don't I don't have the
details but I think he had a couple of
jobs so to speak related to the
government of the realm before he won
that election um today that's unheard of
that's I think that's just
Parliament doesn't give you executive
power over a life in life and death the
way that Joffrey does in A Song of Ice
and Fire the way that Robb Stark does
Robb Stark is having to make decisions
about who gets their head chopped off as
soon as he comes into office and he
comes into office because of who his
father is and because of the
circumstances of his father's death and
you know Robb Stark and Joffrey
obviously are examples of bad political
leaders I think in a much more subtle
and nuanced way Jon Snow and Daenerys
Targaryen also are presented to us as
examples of bad not good political
leaders and you're missing the point if
you think that Jon Snow or Daenerys are
held up you know for our uncritical
adulation as examples of brief
humanitarians now Jon Snow and Daenerys
I do think their plot lines I have a
couple of important parallels one both
Jon Snow and in eras are motivated by
sincere humanitarian instincts they want
to help people they're concerned about
the poor they're concerned about the
starving the in Daenerys is case she's
concerned about the treatment of slaves
concerned about people being tortured to
death etc obviously sorry the plots are
different I can't really use one set of
adjectives for both Daenerys and for Jon
Snow they both come into political power
they try to make the situation better to
simplify slightly they make the
situation worse to be done in some ways
to make the situation it's better in
some place than with the serum works
they're then dealing with increasing
hostility from the people they're ruling
increasing opposition from exactly the
people that rely on and then I think
they they have a twist in their plot
which is currently the end of 2016 this
is where we're at and the published
works in Jon Snow's case he actually
dies and comes back from the dead but
Nikki's both of them have a near-death
experience
Daenerys his case we don't think she
actually dies but when the books end
currently she is very close to death and
don't underestimate that she is
hallucinating
she has diarrhea or perhaps dysentery
she is dehydrated and starving in the
middle of a wasteland
wander
hopelessly trying to get back to the
capital city now I don't think she is
gonna die but in both cases their plots
have a turning point where they've had a
near-death experience they're reduced to
rumination and where they seem to have
lost all or most of their political
support so you know in those broad
brushstrokes there's a parallelism there
but again I mean fundamentally this is
not a political issue that's easy to
apply the nine states today I can't when
was the last time somebody at 19 or 20
years old was elected to Parliament in
England or in America or Canada or in
any of our Western democracies it's
unheard of it's unthinkable now and for
someone as a teenager to be put in a
position of executive power of making
life-and-death decisions of starting
Wars of negotiating peace treaties these
kinds of foreign policy decisions you
know we even have I mean Brandon Stark
briefly is kind of judge jury and
executioner as a very young child up at
up at Winterfell because Rob is absent
as ever call we have a couple of couple
of weeks or a couple of months when he's
in charge of business at Winterfell
before it's conquered and taken over by
the Ironborn so you know we have
remarkably young children and teenagers
putting on the crown and making those
decisions and George is uniformly
critical of this throughout the books
again just because it is his own
interest it's not a critique that can
possibly change your influence politics
today and I think that just reflects his
own his own opinion or his own
frustration in spending so much time
reading medieval history renaissance
history the history of Europe history of
China he's someone who you know enjoys
and draws material from reading history
of many parts of the world but there's
no sense in which he's a you know
neutral observer of that obviously cares
passion about that that something comes
out in his writing so Johnson I mean
first and foremost very broadly speaking
John snows career up to his death is not
the portrait of a good ruler and is not
the portrait of a competent ruler and we
can be even more harsh in the case of
Daenerys Tudor terraria Daenerys is not
a good rule
she's not a competent ruler however she
is motivated by humanitarian instincts
she is motivated by compassion John also
is motivated by compassion you have a
situation where John is
you know the Nights Watch themselves are
worried about starving to death during
the winter winter is just starting or
hasn't yet begun and John snow is out
there dividing up the last of their
apples and oranges and giving them to
these refugees giving them to the you
know this population of people who he is
not the king or governor of whom he has
no responsibility to which is already a
very serious you know moral question I
just mentioned you know um you know
everyone knows the george RR martin is
to some extent responding to the vietnam
war and i also on this YouTube channel
talked a great deal about the history of
the Vietnam War part of my own research
experience and my own life experience
has been in places like Laos Cambodia
Thailand and you know part of the world
that was torn apart and redefined by the
United States intervention in Vietnam
that political history matters to me a
great deal even though I'm some decades
younger the george RR martin but you
know when you read the history of
vietnam more people kind of newbies they
often kind of object to the immorality
of american servicemen with the
assumption that those american
servicemen had a moral obligation to
help the peasants the common people to
be involved in domestic policy and human
rights and education or what-have-you of
the normal people of a country like
Vietnam or Laos or Cambodia and in the
contrary I mean in a sense you know you
may be all the more harshly castigating
of American foreign policy when you
understand this you have to say no those
men are following a chain of command
they're just playing a combat role
they're not there to feed the poor or
provide education or be concerned with
human rights or to have you there are
other people in the US government who do
have that responsibility and some of
them are in Congress and some of them
are in the State Department and some of
them are another you know departments
down the line but it's quite wrong to
look at those soldiers and say well why
didn't you do blank why weren't you
concerned with with this and you know it
takes a very strange sort of sympathy to
read that history and sympathize
men who were following orders sometimes
to slaughter civilians sometimes to
torture civilians but those were their
orders and that's what they were doing
is really you know reading that history
and understanding what's going on it's
it's beyond having sympathy for the
devil you know and I met some of those
guys I mean recently too I talked about
this on youtube it's output to a Vietnam
War veteran here who talked to me quite
openly about atrocities or crimes
against humanity that he committed
himself and you know I sit there and
listen to him frankly with all due
sympathy and I know he was not the
author of that war and most cases he
didn't make those decisions and the
reason why he's telling me is precisely
that he's not proud I think on some
level he wants the next generation and
know and appreciate what happened and
why it happened
etc but you know the wall the soldiers
of the wall like boys they are this Army
of Occupation
and you know their enemy for many many
generations even if mistakenly so are
the wildlings and now Jon Snow is you
know um unceremoniously and
undemocratically completely changing the
purpose of that military organization
and he is with with very sincere you
know humanitarian concern violating the
principles of their whole mission and is
trying to make them feed and clothe that
house the poor and is you know admitting
women into their military unit whereas
formerly they didn't have any women at
all that was you know excluded he's
taking on these people in this new
capacity and so on now is that why Jon
Snow was assassinated to some extent we
don't know yet there's a brief passage
where Cersei sits down with her
co-conspirators in King's Landing and
she says she's going to carry out some
kind of plot some kind of devious plot
to get rid of Jon Snow or change the
situation up at the wall in the north as
I recall it's very vaguely stated what
she's gonna do she's gonna send some
people there or she's gonna have some
secret agents there carry out her plan
um I think it was intentional that we
didn't know quite what Cersei was gonna
pull and it is possible that Circe's
plot is what we've already seen that
they're her co-conspirators at the wall
all already you know in killing John
snow that was them carrying out the
mission that she's alluding to in that
passage but it's also possible that
after John snow comes back from the dead
he's gonna face and deal with that plot
of Circe's henchmen and then maybe they
haven't even arrived yet maybe it's
something completely in the future
thought so we don't know to some extent
there may have been um Lannister
meddling and indeed Baratheon meddling
from King's Landing in in changing his
political situation however would that
have been said you know the text is not
kind to John Snow the text shows us a
teenager who is completely ill-equipped
to deal with his mission in life he's
ill-equipped to deal with it in a
military sense
he's ill-equipped to deal with it in a
political sense and you know um it's
true he looks good in those negotiations
with Stannis Baratheon
there are various passages in which John
Snow seems to be wise beyond his years
but of course there are many others
which he's not in which he is precisely
as wise as years no more no less and I
mean with with Daenerys I don't know I
don't even think I need to spell it out
Daenerys says she's gonna abolish
slavery and she sells out right she
gives up her own principles she becomes
in a in effect a moderately pro-slavery
person allowing slavery on the docks
allowing the slave trade just trying to
stabilize the situation instead of
fundamentally changing the situation
Daenerys we get to see her in about two
paragraphs go from being a totally
opposed to the use of torture to
endorsing and actively using torture
against her enemies against her supposed
enemies in a desperate attempt to get
intelligence now again I think you know
the significance of that choice given
the whole political context that George
Martin was writing in during these
decades in which the books were created
given you know many many people cede
Daenerys in Mereen as a parallel to the
United States in Iraq or the United
States in Afghanistan there are also
parallels that maybe get overlooked to
the history of the United Kingdom in
Ireland I felt as soon as I read the
material with the masks you know
with the soldiers having to wear masks
to cover up their identity when they're
supporting the the government of
occupation I thought wow that really
resonates with the experience of Ireland
with the Black and Tans and what have
you with men having to live in secrecy
you know if they were Irish men working
on the probe British side the
pro-government side of having to live
that kind of see that that really
resonates that right away but of course
and it doesn't mean it's in applicable
to situation in Afghanistan in
Afghanistan right now we have a lot of
Afghans who worked for the American side
applying to migrate to Canada or
applying to migrate the United States
and they're being evacuated and when
they fill out those applications whether
they're applying the United States or
Canada or both they say simply if you
leave me behind here if you leave me
behind in Afghanistan I'll be killed
because I worked for your side and I try
to keep it secret they do try to keep it
secret those guys but enough people know
it that sooner or later they'll be found
out and they'll be exterminated now that
the United States is withdrawing or
allegedly withdrawing we'll see we'll
see to what extent the United States
really withdraws forces from from either
front but anyway you know so daenerys we
see if you know very clear story arc
again in some ways parallel to John snow
and in both cases you know they start
off as teenagers with good intentions
with humanitarian instincts with real
compassion but they also both have no
explicitly articulated political
philosophy none and you know Voorhies
has a political philosophy and it's
articulated arguably littlefinger maybe
has a political philosophy that's
explicitly articulated
I mean it's debatable some of the other
old men in power they may also you know
articulated political velocity but Jon
Snow doesn't have one and Daenerys
doesn't have one and I would say that's
probably part of the plot to us we're
looking at now with both of them having
a near-death experience Jon Snow dying
coming back from dead Daenerys almost
dying and coming back from the
wilderness I think when they come back
the whole point is going to be that for
both of them it crystallizes for them
that they need to have a strategy that
they
selves understand and articulate to the
people they're ruling that they need to
have a modus operandi they need to have
some set of principles that defines what
they're doing and and why they're
chewing yet um you know again this is
part of what makes it all so alien to
the world we live in today frankly
Francis Bacon is a great example to kick
this off with we remember of Francis
Bacon as an old man
we remember Francis Bacon for his
philosophy of science for his philosophy
of democracy delivery which is him
writing as an old man I have no idea
what Francis Bacon was like when he was
18 years old and 20 years old in
government maybe at 20 years old Francis
Bacon was the worst parliamentarian in
the British system you know look I don't
I don't what is the youngest work of
read by Francis Bacon but Amedeo Francis
Bacon his his major contributions to
philosophy of science and indeed
political philosophy this is all an old
man looking back on decades and decades
of experience in government and you can
say that his political education was
serving in government from his teenage
years forward right so that was his
college he didn't have him you didn't
have to go to university and get a BA or
something like this he started at such a
young agent government II was able to
look look back on that but perhaps if we
did have access to I don't know maybe
some historians do have access to his
more juvenile writings or his more
juvenile role in government it's you
know the difference between him at age
you know in his 50s as opposed to him in
his 20s must be extreme obviously in a
highly traumatized form in these texts
we get to see these characters mature we
get to see their perspective on
Authority itself being transformed by
the experience of being an authority in
no time flat these books can't drag it
out and give us 20 years of Johnstone
maturing and has to be remembered you
know they aren't the only characters we
see turning a corner like that even
though it is very briefly handled jail
or Mormont the the old bear the Mormont
Commander of the Nights Watch on the
wall we get to see his political
philosophy transform down to his dying
day where he's actually having to
reconsider why does the why does this
pterri service exist what is our
relationship to the wildlings why are we
fighting the wrong war why are we
fighting against the wildlings instead
of fighting yes you know fighting
against the great other etc etc now with
all that haven't been said when Daenerys
comes back from her near dead experience
what is her political philosophy gonna
be I have no idea it seems to me
unlikely the gorge is gonna have her
come back as a simple fire and blood
dictator but it's possible and we
already have Cersei Lannister showing
one face of dictatorship it is quite
possible that Daenerys will come back
hardened and having no sympathy any more
for the peasants she formerly tried to
help formerly tried to feed no sympathy
any more for the slaves she formally
tried to liberate it's possible she'll
come back with no sympathy for the slave
owners so that she'll just be
exterminating the slave owners instead
of taking her more moderate fat I don't
know but whatever it is is then going to
be counterpose to other people in the
game of thrones who have other very
different approaches to to politics
would have you I mean what lesson can
Jon Snow learn what is the conclusion he
is gonna draw from his experience where
he really did violate both the letter
and the spirit of the military code he
was supposed to live by he to say he was
delinquent in his duties is an
understatement
he totally abandoned the whole raison
d'tre for the Nights Watch he's guilty
as charged he's absolutely guilty as
charged did he do that in pursuit of a
higher ideal did he do it with
humanitarian attentions instead of sure
but I mean you know there's no question
that Jon Snow he's guilty of gross
dereliction of duty he's guilty of
perverting the whole purpose of the
Nights Watch and to me that is
symbolized very well but Jon Snow going
with his with a couple of his fellow
officers you know to give away their
food and their apples to these starving
wildlings sure that alone even though
it's a beautiful gesture and it's a
contrast to all the other political
leaders who just didn't care when the
peasants were starving to death
um as aren't there apples hahahaha and
that's that's not the role the Nights
Watch right you know but of course also
everyone already knows this is dramatic
just before his death when Jon Snow
calls for volunteers to go and march
against Winterfell
so this is an even more clear
dereliction of duty so yes I mean it's
easy to paint Jon Snow's conflict in
terms of racism in terms of racism
against the wildlings um and his being
excessive of course that is an element I
think all the books show an interest in
in racism and especially when the the
races concerned have a very unclear
dotted line between them Georgia likes
to set up those situations and play with
the you know the ethical ambiguities um
but you know in every sense John in the
book of whether or not this is true in
the TV shows no bill in the book Jon
Snow is dead wrong and the group of
assassins who move against them if you
really think it through it's quite easy
to sympathize with their motives so in
both cases I don't know are we now gonna
see Jon Snow come back as a remorseless
dictator I doubt it you know it's quite
possible you'll see Jon Snow come back
as even more committed to the higher
ideals he was trying to serve previously
and of realizing that those ideals are
not compatible with military service in
the Nights Watch but maybe they are
compatible with him being the rebel
leader of a bunch of wildlings trying to
conquer Winterfell wouldn't be hard to
you know predict that or maybe he's a
rebel leader of a bunch of northern
Lords fighting against the Bolton's you
know fill in the blanks or maybe he
becomes a rebel leader divinely inspired
by the red God or one of these other
religions unlikely but possible maybe
he's divinely inspired by the old gods
and the trees or what-have-you
um but I mean two big tropes in the
books maybe make readers uncomfortable
generally I mean I think the books as
they've progressed they have gone from a
very secular world to a world that is
more and more jihadist to be blunt
remember talking about this with my
teacher here I've been talking about
Game of Thrones in Chinese and writing
essays about it in Chinese as a way of
practicing the language you know um you
know at the start of the books partly
because the point of views were the
point of view chapters were given
you know the way the books are written
you know we're given a lot of point of
view some Tyrians perspective Tyrion is
a totally secular anti religious
character he thinks organized religion
is a joke etc etc um we we get the sense
at the beginning that of course magic is
dead in the world that religion is a
joke we have this very cynical secular
down-to-earth view of the world and then
graduates the books progress we realize
that's not everybody's view of the world
there are a lot of very sincerely
religious people even fanatical
religious people and on the contrary the
fever-pitch
of religiosity in this world seems to be
elevated of course you know with the
Iron Islands plot there that religion
and you know the rise of Euron as a semi
fanatical you know religious figure and
the rise of the cult of the red God but
even the you know what we see bran go
through with a peculiar gods the old
religion um this world has become more
and more a world dominated by religious
warfare religious ideology as the books
progressed partly because our
perspective changes as readers and
partly because of the real political
developments in the world and on the
other hand I think we also see you know
the resolution of formerly irresolute
political ideologies right so varies
comes out of the shadow and reveals
exactly what his political philosophy is
and exactly what it means back in book 1
there was a lot of dancing around about
that you know um it was genuinely secret
and we got a lot of kind of peculiar
provocative hints at who he was what he
was about what objectives he was
pursuing and now it's crystal clear when
he's standing there murdering Kevan
Lannister exactly what Varys is about
exactly what his political philosophy is
both in theory and in practice a lot of
people wonder are we gonna see a figure
a major figure like Jon Snow or Daenerys
supporting democracy well my light motif
for this video is Francis Bacon Francis
Bacon believed in democracy and he talks
about democracy it very interestingly in
the context of his philosophy of science
he believes the progress of science is
itself democratic which is
a very interesting concept also very
much debatable I mean in some ways the
progress of science is very elitist not
everyone can participate in the progress
of chemistry or biochemistry or in you
know advanced research into the human
genome via biochemistry there are
elitist aspects they're very
undemocratic aspects of how science
works now scientific research works how
science progresses but he also has some
really interesting points in saying that
that science is a democracy of knowledge
or is democratic and it's obvious that
in his own political milieu he was a
voice for democracy in a sense why do I
mention that well in another sense you
could say that in Francis Bacon's period
of time in England there was no such
thing as democracy and there was even no
real concept of democracy or that the
philosophy was incredibly weak and
distant this is a totally this is a
period of history in Europe completely
dominated by monarchy and where you know
democracy was a very far off and muted
concept and you could also say in
Francis Bacon's career well if that was
his objective if he was serious about
democracy he failed it's also a very
interesting way to look at the career of
a major politician like Francis Bacon
you know what was he a success he left
us these writings about democracy and
science did he actually managed to
transform his own society to reflect
those ideas no it was always a failure
or he's a dreamer or he was ahead of his
time whatever you want to say ok that's
all interesting worth talking about is
it possible in a fictional universe like
Game of Thrones for someone to come out
advocating for an idea like democracy
when it's totally alien to that society
yes I think like Francis Bacon I think
you could have someone advocating for
science in some sense I think you could
have someone advocating for democracy in
some sense is it gonna be Jon Snow or
Daenerys I doubt it you know maybe we're
gonna see both of them harden their
political philosophies before those
philosophies become brittle and break I
don't know I mean when you look at
Daenerys Targaryen is there anyone in a
position to say to her you were supposed
to be representing the slaves and you
I'm out your original principles were
that nobody would ever be tortured again
and you sold out you started using
torture there's nobody in barristan
selmy could do it but you know who is
going to criticize her or give her that
comeuppance she is in the position of
being an unquestioned dictator in many
ways and there's nobody to even have
that debate with her it's a very
interesting debate to have but yes it's
quite possible we're gonna see Daenerys
return as the you know bringer of fire
and blood as his unrepentant dictator
type of figure and then maybe at some
point we'll see her realize how far she
strayed from her original ideals in the
hardening of her own political ideology
and maybe we'll see a similar arc with
Jon Snow where Jon Snow now becomes a
more brutal leader of a resistance
movement maybe like Lady Stoneheart or
something men maybe he is successful
right away maybe right away he's able to
take over Winterfell
George rarely makes it that easy on his
per day is rare for it to be that easy
right it's possible but yeah I doubt it
but again maybe we'll see him harden
into a more brutal and less humanitarian
sort of political leader before at some
point eating a realization that he has
straight very very far from the ideals
that led him to erode his own political
position at Winterfell by trying to help
the people who had been for centuries
you know the enemies of the Nights Watch
the the that resulted in him going into
the storerooms of the Nights Watch at
the wall and getting out their apples
and bread and handing them out to a
bunch of refugees whom he had no
obligation to help that idealism you
know maybe lost and then refound in this
period of civil war but obviously George
can do whatever he wants to do with it
but at bottom what we're shown again and
again is that teenagers make terrible
rulers whether it's Joffrey or Robb
Stark or Jon Snow there is simply I
believe in George RR Martin's view of
the world there is no
such thing as a good 16 year old tyrant
there is just no such thing there is no
such thing even as a good 19 year old
dictator and again that's not a critique
that's applicable to politics United
States right now it's not even
applicable to parliamentary democracy
right now we're just i think legally
it's possible to elect 19 year olds and
20 year olds but we don't do it anymore
culturally we've drifted so far away
from that but part of the overall harsh
tone of Georgia's writing about this is
I think a sense of repugnance for what
he sees happening in the history of the
world again and again in his reading of
ancient Medieval and Renaissance history
that as soon as power is put into the
hands of these young people whether it's
because their fathers have been killed
in war or through rebellion or some
other circumstance things tend to go
downhill quick and the last thing that
George would ever show us I'm
disagreeing with president right the
last thing George would ever show us is
that these political problems are
resolved simply because the person who
ends up sitting on the throne at the end
of an intern a scene civil war this guy
happens to be a philosopher king there's
no such thing as a philosopher King not
in real life
and not a game of Thrones and if you
think that Jon Snow making the decisions
that lead up to his own assassination is
acting as some kind of benign dictator
or some kind of perfect philosopher king
you're dead wrong
that's not the point of the text at all